>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna talk
a little bit about some terminology,
just to make sure we're
all on the same page.
Cuz if we get really deep into this and
I'm talking about pure and
impure functions, you're like,
I don't know about this.
Or what does it mean to not
mutate state in a language where
all of your basic data structures
are mutable, [LAUGH] right?
And how do we do that, right?
Cuz otherwise,
to have some common language and
some common terminology will
probably go a long way for us.
So we'll talk first about pure and
impure functions.
A pure function,
I am a liberal arts major, but
what I'm told is a pure function is the
functions you see in math class, right?
Where things go in and
things come out, right?
And if the same two arguments go in,
the same result comes out.
Impure functions can mutate things, or
change stuff, or have other side effects.
Effectively, if you wanna be
totally on the pure function,
functional programming train, the second
you throw a console log in there,
it's technically an impure function,
right?
Cuz there's another thing happening
on top of two arguments coming in, or
x number of arguments coming in and
one leaving.
So this is a pure function.
It takes a and b and returns a + b.
An impure function is one that just hopes
that b is existing in the kind of closure
scope or global scope, right?
That involves things
outside of the function.
That is enough to make something impure.
As I mentioned before,
a console log makes it impure, right?
And also, and this is important because
Redux only deals with pure functions.
Doing a thing where you hit an API,
add a callback to the event
queue that eventually gets
called is impure, right?
Mostly, mutating arrays and
objects is also impure cuz we're
changing stuff from the outside world.
And this is tricky cuz
as I mentioned before,
all of our data structures in
JavaScript are mutable, right?
Except, I guess, strings.